Hello, everyone.
So I hope that you all have went through the introduction review and the working of the application
with you and gained a rough overview about the application that we are going to make today.
So the application was a music playlist library made in Java?
Yes, core Java nor any other complex libraries will be used while making this application, and we
are going to make this application in our favorite compiler Visual Studio code.
Yes.
So this is the welcome window of the IDE, the compiler, which we are going to use for writing the
code of the music playlist application.
So let us start creating the code of the application in that idea.
So once you open the welcome page of the IDE, you have to click this file icon on the top of the left
panel.
So this is Explorer Tab and we have to click this.
After clicking the Explorer Tab option, we have to click on Create Java Project Option.
So I hope that you all have installed the ID and the JDK latest version in order to make Java application
and learn how to make projects in Java.
These two are the most required things before starting to make this application, so hoping that you
all have installed the Visual Studio code and JDK 17.
I am moving forward, but in case if you have missed that part or have not installed, then go through
the previous videos.
Then where you will get the tutorial for installing both of them, the ID and the JDK version as well.
So for those who have already installed, I am moving forward and starting to create the Java project
from scratch.
So clicking on this great Java project, I am going to select no build tool options.
We are going to make this application without any external frameworks of Java like we have Maven, Springboard
Quarks and Micro Profile.
But in this project we have no use of these extensions.
We are just going to begin this with no build tool options.
And on clicking on this Noble Tool option, we will open our desktop file chooser option.
So this is for choosing the location of the file.
So choosing the folder for storing the application.
So if you wish to store in an already made folder, you can do so.
Or if you want to create a new folder, then you can also do so.
So I am going to select the PATH Desktop for storing this application and on clicking on the Select
Project location, we will set a location for our project.
You must note the location for the project as later when you mistakenly close Visual Studio code.
Then if you wish to open the project, then you go through the path of the project.
Like suppose if you have stored the project in C drive, then you have to go and see it right in order
to open the project.
Similarly, if you have stored in desktop like me, then you have to open your desktop and then open
your folder made for this project.
So we have selected desktop folder for storing this project.
Like the location of project is going to be in the desktop and after selecting the desktop option,
now I have to set a name for this Java project like this dialog box is asking for input a name.
Java project name.
Yes.
So we have to input a name for this Java project.
So if suppose they want to name this project as like my music library.
Perfect, so you can name your application anyway.
But I like this name for my application, so I am naming this as my music library.
So after hitting enter, a folder will be created in the desktop as I have selected that location for
my project creation.
So the folder will be created in the desktop only and after creation of that folder we will create files
inside the folder.
There will be some inbuilt files and folders inside this my music library folder which we are storing
in desktop and similarly the folders we will create, all the files will be created, will stored in
that location only.
There will be no other locations where the files will be stored like any thing will not be stored in
your C drive or anywhere else.
This is a simple application with simple files, no complex files.
So my music library will be the name of the folder now after hitting enter.
And we are going to enter in our new Java project.
So yes, we are here now.
We have an empty page for our application which has some inbuilt folders like this dot disk which is
due to the mercy of our compiler.
Like these two folders are with the mercy of our compiler and the rest are due to the Java project which
we have selected from this and click on Create Java Project.
So these are the inbuilt folders and files.
Like if we click inside this RC, we will see that there is an inbuilt file app, not Java, which contains
a class called F, and this part will run whenever the app will do an exception.
So you may be wondering what the exception is like.
Why the Apple two exception?
What is the reason behind it?
So let me give you a quick look upon it.
So suppose you are making the application and suppose there are some errors like some bugs in your application.
So if the exception is seen by the compiler, it will throw the exception and will print this thing
like it will print.
Hello, this is the by default string which is created by the Java project itself.
We can change it according to our convenience.
So whenever the app will throw a runtime error, then this error will be displayed in your compiler
compiler terminal and this will show that your app has some exceptions, like go and debug it and then
try to run it once again.
So checking exceptions are the most important thing while making a Java project.
So yes, we are done with this app, the Java file which we have already present before, before starting
the project.
We are having these folders and we have this Abdul-Jabbar file as the inbuilt file in this application.
So.
Nice.
Now we are here with our project.
Now we have.
We already made a prototype.
You can see that we already made this prototype.
And this will guide us that how to move forward while making this project.
So firstly, let me zoom this for a better visibility of the viewers.
So yes, we are done with creating our Java project in our IDE.
Now in order to make to start making the application, we have to create classes and without classes
there is nothing in Java.
We have to create classes and then initialize constructors inside it, initialize functions inside it
and then add the queries inside them so that we can make that function.
So let us first create a file and call it song or Java.
And by hitting it we are here in a new file which says Public Class Song.
So this line means that we have created a class called Song and the access specifies say that this class
is public.
So this class is accessible by all the files in this app, and we can call it anywhere without getting
any error and exception, like without using public.
Suppose if we are using private then we have to set some like get and set methods in Java so that in
order to access that class or anything like we can add public to any variable, any class, any function.
So I am just explaining the concept behind these access specified, like what is the difference between
creating a public class and a private class?
So I hope you must have understood what is the difference between a public class and a private class.
So we have went through the get set thing in our previous projects.
You must go through them to understand the get set concepts now so that we have created this song class.
Now we will try to add some song like song layout for the application.
Like you can see that in the presentation section that we have a song and a place and Inside The Blaze
we have title of the song as a string and duration of the song as a we can say that in a mathematical
term it is like we call it decimal, I think yes.
So the duration is as the form of decimal and the title is as the form of a string.
So we have to create that thing inside this song class now initializing this class song with a string
called it name of the song and the duration was decimal, so we have to initialize this as double.
I hope you know the concept of load double in in Java.
In order to learn how to make Java project, you must be aware with the basics of Java, the data types
involved in Java and double is a very popular data type in Java.
So yes, this double is containing the duration of the song and.
We are done with both the components inside the song class.
Now we have to call it Inside the constructor.
Public song.
Not a constructor, but a class functions public song.
So inside the song function, we have to pass two arguments.
Like whenever this function will be called, it will come up with two arguments, one as the string.
So yes, let us name this as title.
It will look more involving like the song has a title and or duration.
So the arguments are passed successfully for the song class.
For the song song function, we have created this song class inside which we have two objects.
A class contains object.
So this title and duration are the real world entities, or in one word we call it as the objects.
So they have two objects and the function has arguments.
Yes, the function consists of arguments and variables.
So we have created the function and inside we are calling the title object using this keyword.
This keyword used to access the objects of any class.
And similarly for this thought duration, the dot is used to call the methods.
This is also one of the basic concepts of learning the language Java.
So we have called both of the objects inside this function.
Now let me create an empty constructor.
Currently we are not going to use this constructor, but in later, later in this project while making
this project.
Suppose if we will need this, then we are going to use this now after the creation of the class, the
function and the constructor.
Now moving forward in this song class we have to create to get title and get duration function.
In order to return the title and the duration, we have created the title and duration inside the public
class.
But still to avoid any kind of exception, we are going to get them using the get method in Java, so
we are going to see that stuff in the next part.
So see you in the next part.